---
title: Installing JavaScript SDK
slug: javascript-installing
createdAt: 2023-07-28T03:51:39.857Z
updatedAt: 2023-10-18T22:36:23.800Z
---

You can integrate the Ditto SDK with your web and Node.js projects developed using JavaScript and [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) languages.&#x20;

:::hint{type="info"}
For a complete overview of the platforms, transports, and devices that the JavaScript SDK supports, see [Compatibility with JavaScript](docId\:XhpFTXMxEeUnw19jFVpnl).
:::

:::hint{type="info"}
If you're using Node.js and want instructions on how to create a task app, see the [Node.js Task App Quickstart](docId:6AdbrdMau2R_G7K6NBVDo) and the [Task App: Node.js](docId\:SJUbWaLBRyACA0Vnd7huG) tutorial.
:::

To install the JavaScript SDK:

(1)

Confirm that you meet the minimum requirements. ([Installing JavaScript SDK](docId\:dZLDXlIHB4n9kRhUPCZrN))

(2)

Install the `ditto` package in your environment. ([Installing JavaScript SDK](docId\:dZLDXlIHB4n9kRhUPCZrN))

(3)

Import and initialize Ditto in your app. ([Installing JavaScript SDK](docId\:dZLDXlIHB4n9kRhUPCZrN))

(4)

Authenticate with the Big Peer and then start syncing offline. ([Installing JavaScript SDK](docId\:dZLDXlIHB4n9kRhUPCZrN))

# Prerequisites

Following are the minimum requirements that must be met before attempting to install Ditto.

*   [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) long-term support (LTS) version 14.0

*   Linux, macOS version 11, or Windows version 10.0

# Installing Dependencies

Install the `@dittolive/ditto` package into your project:

```none
npm install @dittolive/ditto
```

# Integrating Ditto and Starting Sync

Import and initialize Ditto, and then provide your access credentials for one-time authentication with the Big Peer:

1.  From the top-most scope of your app, import Ditto.

2.  Using async await, initialize Ditto.

3.  Provide your access credentials:
    1.  Replace the `appID` placeholder value with the app ID that identifies your app in Ditto.

    2.  Replace the `token` placeholder value with your playground token that the Big Peer uses to verify your digital identity before issuing your playground certificate.&#x20;

:::hint{type="warning"}
Make sure to instantiate the `ditto` object in the top-most scope of your app. Otherwise, it may be inadvertently garbage collected and no longer accessible throughout the lifecycle of your app.&#x20;
:::

:::hint{type="info"}
For instructions on how to obtain your access credentials, see [Onboarding](docId\:UUFFlh8kUJSsgS5Pc6mTO). For an introduction to authentication in Ditto, see *Ditto Basics* > [Authentication and Initialization](docId\:Pc5gf25-wFo_AtgbSu1IL).
:::

```javascript
import { init, Ditto } from "@dittolive/ditto";

let ditto;
async function main() {
  await init()
  ditto = new Ditto({
    type: "onlinePlayground",
    appID: "YOUR_APP_ID",
    token: "YOUR_PLAYGROUND_TOKEN"
  })

  ditto.startSync()
}

main()
```

# Running Ditto

If you're using typescript, you must create the JavaScript file by running the following command:

```none
tsc
```

Then, you can execute the file:

```none
node index.js
```

# Setting Up Subscriptions

You must create a `subscription` object in the global scope so that ditto synchronizes in the background throughout the duration of the program.

```javascript
import { init, Ditto } from '@dittolive/ditto'

let ditto
let subscription
let liveQuery

async function main () {
  await init()

  ditto = new Ditto({ type: 'onlinePlayground', appID: 'YOUR_APP_ID', token: 'YOUR_TOKEN_HERE'})
  ditto.startSync()

  // Start a subscription
  subscription = ditto.store.collection("tasks").find("isDeleted == false").subscribe()


}

main()
```

# Listening to Changes

Using the `observeLocal` method, as follows, for every change to a document, you can retrieve those documents and print them to the console:

:::hint{type="info"}
For a step-by-step demonstration of how to create a basic task app, see the [Task App: Node.js](docId\:SJUbWaLBRyACA0Vnd7huG) tutorial.
:::

```javascript
import { init, Ditto } from '@dittolive/ditto'

let ditto
let subscription
let liveQuery

async function main () {
  await init()

  ditto = new Ditto({ type: 'onlinePlayground', appID: 'YOUR_APP_ID', token: 'YOUR_TOKEN_HERE'})
  ditto.startSync()

  subscription = ditto.store.collection("tasks").find("isDeleted == false").subscribe()

  // Listen for changes
  liveQuery = ditto.store.collection("tasks").find("isDeleted == false").observeLocal((docs, event) => {
    console.log(docs)
  })

  ditto.store.collection("tasks").upsert({
    isCompleted: false,
    isDeleted: false,
    body: "Hello world!"
  })
}

main()
```

